= ValidationIssues

The Reason for this project is simple.  People are paying attention to A/B tests and user conversion without having all the details.

For example, Lets say you have a form that appears to have users drop out of your signup funnel.  Normally the first stab at the problem is to create an A/B test without any data.

What if you knew 90% of the people that hit the form had a validation error on the first_name field.  I'm betting that you might not need an AB test.  If you did add an AB test you would focus on the first_name field.

This problem actually happened on a live production app I was working on.  Turns out the first_name validated white space.  If a user added a space at the end of their name the validation would fail.  The user would receive a "Invalid First Name" message.  They would look at their name and be confused and eventually leave.  The solution was as simple as sanitizing the first_name before validations.  If we had this tool the problem would have never lasted for so long.

= Getting started

add this to your gemfile

  gem 'validation_issues'

In your application_controller.rb add the following to have permissions to see the admin section:

  class ApplicationController < ActionController::Base
    protected
    def has_validation_issues_admin_privileges
      # logic you want to make this true
      # Typically this will work
      current_user && current_user.admin?
    end
  end

In your model add 'acts_as_validation_issues'

  class User < ActiveRecord::Base
    # add this line
    acts_as_validation_issues
  end

Now the only you need to do is this in your controller:

  def create
    user = User.new(:first_name => '', :last_name => 'Good Last Name')
    if user.save
      # do something
    else
      user.log_validation_issue!('user_form')
      # do something else(like render the form again)
    end
  end

you pass the form's name into the user.log_validation_issue! method.  This way if you have an AB test you can see the difference in the results.


Navigate to the admin at this url:

   localhost:3000/validation_admin/validation_issues

Happy Coding.  If you have any problems feel free to ask me directly, David Henner
